So now we added the configuration.
Now let's say,
we actually want to make add a bit more flexible.
It should work with numbers,
but it should also work with strings.
Of course I wanted to ensure that it works with numbers
to show you why TypeScript is awesome,
but still, this could be a use case
that you have in some app you are building.
You want to allow both numbers and strings
because maybe here, we want to have a string result as well.
And there, I want to be able to call add
with the string values.
And I want to get that concatenated result.
So I want to have that concatenated string of numbers.
Now, currently we are only accepting number here.
We could change this to any.
Now any kind of data is accepted.
But as a downside, we can now, for example,
also console.log add, and add true and false together.
Now I don't want to accept Booleans,
I want to accept strings and numbers.
That's where we can use a feature called the Union Type.
Often in code, you will have code that works
with more than one type.
Now in that case,
you can define multiple types, like number and string
separated with that single pipe symbol here.
This is a Union Type.
It means number num1 is either a number
or a string.
And we can do this here for num2 as well.
Now we get an error here because of that Union Type thing
because even though the plus operator does work
with both number and string,
TypeScript at the moment at least doesn't understand this.
And even though this here is a strange error
because the plus operator of course would work
for both numbers and strings,
it is also often the case that you accept multiple types,
but you wanna run slightly different code
depending on the type of data you get.
So that's actually great that we can do this here as well.
And we can do this with a traditional if check.
We can check if the typeof num1
is equal to number,
and this is regular JavaScript code now.
This is not TypeScript code.
The typeof operator exists in JavaScript
and it gives us back the types as strings, number and so on.
So we can check if num1 is a number
and if num2 is a number,
and if it is we return num1 plus num2
else if
typeof num1,
is let's say a string
and typeof num2 is a string,
then let's say we wanna return num1 plus
and then maybe some white space in between,
you don't have to add it though.
I'm just doing it here so that we see a difference
besides the different result, I guess.
Well, and else, if we have mixed types,
it theoretically would work, but in this case,
we maybe just want to force a conversion to a number
so that if we get a string and a number mixed,
we always convert both to a number.
If we have two numbers, we add them like this.
If we have two strings, we add them like this.
This is a so called Type Guard,
because we run different code
based on different types we're getting for our values.
And now you'll see that down there,
I'm not able to call this for Booleans
because this is neither a number or a string,
and I'm only allowing these two kinds of types
with my Union Type here, hence, we have to remove this.
And then we can compile this again.
It compiles without errors.
And in the generated JavaScript file,
of course, the Union Type is gone.
The if checks are still there though,
because as I mentioned that is regular JavaScript code.
And of course, we don't want that code to magically go away.
In the end it does yield different results.
So if we now return here and I enter five and 11,
you see we get both 16 as well as our concatenated string.
So Union Types are another key feature.